feat: Add otelcol.connector.signaltometrics component (#6410)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.connector.signaltometrics.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.connector.signaltometrics/
description: Learn about otelcol.connector.signaltometrics
labels:
  stage: experimental
  products:
    - oss
title: otelcol.connector.signaltometrics
---

# `otelcol.connector.signaltometrics`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`otelcol.connector.signaltometrics` accepts spans, metrics, and logs from other `otelcol` components and generates metrics from them using [OTTL][] expressions.

> You can use it to produce sums, gauges, explicit bucket histograms, and exponential (native) histograms from any signal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`otelcol.connector.signaltometrics` accepts spans, metric data points, and logs from other `otelcol` components and generates metrics from them using [OpenTelemetry Transformation Language][OTTL] expressions.
You can use it to produce sums, gauges, explicit bucket histograms, and exponential native histograms from any signal.
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
`otelcol.connector.signaltometrics` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib `signaltometrics` connector.
Bug reports or feature requests are redirected to the upstream repository if necessary.
{{< /admonition >}}

You can specify multiple `otelcol.connector.signaltometrics` components by giving them different labels.

## Usage

```alloy
otelcol.connector.signaltometrics "<LABEL>" {
  // One or more of spans, datapoints, or logs blocks.
  spans {
    name = "<METRIC_NAME>"
    // One of histogram, exponential_histogram, sum, or gauge.
    sum {
      value = "<OTTL_VALUE_EXPRESSION>"
    }
  }

  output {
    metrics = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

You can use the following arguments with `otelcol.connector.signaltometrics`:

| Name         | Type     | Description                                                   | Default       | Required |
| ------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------- |

> | `error_mode` | `string` | How to react to errors when processing OTTL expressions.      | `"propagate"` | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name         | Type     | Description                                                            | Default       | Required |
| ------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------- |
| `error_mode` | `string` | How the connector reacts to errors when it evaluates OTTL expressions. | `"propagate"` | no       |
```

The `error_mode` argument determines how the connector reacts to errors that occur while evaluating an OTTL condition or expression during runtime data consumption.

> This setting doesn't affect errors during OTTL parsing at configuration time, which always cause a startup failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `error_mode` argument determines how the connector reacts to errors that occur while it evaluates an OTTL condition or expression during runtime data consumption.
This setting doesn't affect errors during OTTL parsing at configuration time, which always causes a startup failure.
```

You can set `error_mode` to one of the following values:

* `propagate`: Return the error up the pipeline. This results in the payload being dropped from {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.
* `ignore`: Ignore the error and continue processing. If an error occurs, the record is skipped and the error is logged.

> * `silent`: Ignore the error and continue processing. If an error occurs, the record is skipped and the error isn't logged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `propagate`: Return the error up the pipeline. {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} drops the payload from the pipeline.
* `ignore`: Ignore the error and continue to process data. If an error occurs, {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >} skips the record and logs the error.
* `silent`: Ignore the error and continue to process data. If an error occurs, {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >} skips the record and doesn't log the error.
```

You must define at least one `spans`, `datapoints`, or `logs` block.

[output]: #output
[datapoints]: #datapoints
[logs]: #logs
[spans]: #spans
[attributes]: #attributes
[include]: #include_resource_attributes
[histogram]: #histogram
[exponential_histogram]: #exponential_histogram
[sum]: #sum
[gauge]: #gauge
[debug_metrics]: #debug_metrics

{{< /docs/alloy-config >}}

### `spans`

The `spans` block configures a metric generated from spans.

You can specify multiple `spans` blocks to define different metrics.

| Name          | Type           | Description                                            | Default | Required |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------- | -------- |
| `name`        | `string`       | Name of the generated metric.                          |         | yes      |
| `conditions`  | `list(string)` | OTTL conditions, ORed together, that select the data.  | `[]`    | no       |
| `description` | `string`       | Description of the generated metric.                   | `""`    | no       |

> | `unit`        | `string`       | Unit associated with the generated metric.             | `""`    | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name          | Type           | Description                                 | Default | Required |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `name`        | `string`       | Name of the generated metric.               |         | yes      |
| `conditions`  | `list(string)` | OTTL conditions that filter incoming spans. | `[]`    | no       |
| `description` | `string`       | Description of the generated metric.        | `""`    | no       |
| `unit`        | `string`       | Unit associated with the generated metric.  | `""`    | no       |
```

Each `spans` block must contain exactly one of the [`histogram`][histogram], [`exponential_histogram`][exponential_histogram], [`sum`][sum], or [`gauge`][gauge] blocks, which defines the type of metric to generate.

The `conditions` argument accepts a list of [OTTL][] conditions that are ORed together.
The connector only processes data into the metric if at least one condition evaluates to `true`.

> If you don't specify any conditions, the connector processes all data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `conditions` argument accepts a list of [OTTL][] conditions that the connector combines with a logical OR.
The connector processes data into the metric only when at least one condition evaluates to `true`.
If you don't specify `conditions`, the connector processes all data.
```

### `datapoints`

The `datapoints` block configures a metric generated from metric data points.

You can specify multiple `datapoints` blocks to define different metrics.

This block shares the same configuration structure as [`spans`][spans].
Refer to the [`spans`][spans] block documentation for the complete list of supported arguments and blocks.

### `logs`

The `logs` block configures a metric generated from log records.

You can specify multiple `logs` blocks to define different metrics.

This block shares the same configuration structure as [`spans`][spans].
Refer to the [`spans`][spans] block documentation for the complete list of supported arguments and blocks.

### `attributes`

The `attributes` block specifies a data point attribute to group the generated metric by.

Each unique combination of attribute values generates a separate data point on the metric.
You can specify multiple `attributes` blocks within a `spans`, `datapoints`, or `logs` block to group by multiple attributes.

> The following arguments are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following arguments:
```

| Name            | Type      | Description                                                  | Default | Required |
| --------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- | -------- |
| `key`           | `string`  | Attribute key name.                                          |         | yes      |
| `default_value` | `any`     | Value used when the attribute is missing from the data.      |         | no       |
| `optional`      | `boolean` | Generate the metric even when the attribute is missing.      | `false` | no       |

You can set at most one of `default_value` or `optional` for a given attribute.

> If neither is set, data points that don't have the attribute are dropped from the generated metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't set either option, the connector drops data points that don't have the attribute from the generated metric.
```

If you specify one or more blocks, the connector includes only the listed resource attributes.

This block supports the same arguments as the [`attributes`][attributes] block.

### `histogram`

The `histogram` block generates an explicit bucket histogram metric.

| Name      | Type            | Description                                        | Default                  | Required |
| --------- | --------------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ | -------- |
| `value`   | `string`        | OTTL expression that produces the recorded value.  |                          | yes      |
| `buckets` | `list(number)`  | Explicit bucket boundaries for the histogram.      | See below                | no       |
| `count`   | `string`        | OTTL expression that produces the recorded count.  | `""`                     | no       |

If you don't specify `buckets`, the connector uses the following default boundaries:
`[2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1000, 1400, 2000, 5000, 10000, 15000]`.

If you don't specify `count`, each matching record increments the count by one.

### `exponential_histogram`

> The `exponential_histogram` block generates a base-2 exponential (native) histogram metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `exponential_histogram` block generates a base-2 exponential native histogram metric.
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/output-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `debug_metrics`

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-debug-metrics-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

| Name    | Type               | Description                                                      |
| ------- | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value that other components can use to send telemetry data to. |

`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for traces, metrics, and logs.
The connector generates metrics from the received telemetry according to the configured blocks and emits them to the components specified in `output`.

## Component health

`otelcol.connector.signaltometrics` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.connector.signaltometrics` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.

## Examples

### Generate a native histogram from log lines

> The following example generates an exponential (native) histogram of log body lengths and exports it over OTLP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example generates an exponential native histogram of log body lengths and exports it over OTLP.
```

The connector emits delta metrics on each incoming batch, so this example routes them through [`otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative`][deltatocumulative] and [`otelcol.processor.interval`][interval] to bound the number of data points produced per minute.
Refer to [Control the number of data points per minute](#control-the-number-of-data-points-per-minute) for the rationale.

```alloy
otelcol.connector.signaltometrics "default" {
  logs {
    name        = "log.body.length"
    description = "Distribution of log body lengths"
    exponential_histogram {
      value = "Len(body)"
    }
  }

  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative "default" {
  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.processor.interval.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.processor.interval "default" {
  interval = "60s"

  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.exporter.otlphttp.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.exporter.otlphttp "default" {
  client {
    endpoint = "http://localhost:4318"
  }
}
```

### Generate metrics from spans

The following example generates a span duration histogram and a request counter grouped by HTTP method.

> As with the previous example, the connector's delta metrics are routed through [`otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative`][deltatocumulative] and [`otelcol.processor.interval`][interval] to bound the number of data points produced per minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the previous example, the connector's delta metrics are routed through [`otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative`][deltatocumulative] and [`otelcol.processor.interval`][interval] to limit the number of data points produced per minute.
```

  spans {
    name        = "span.duration"
    description = "Span duration in milliseconds"
    unit        = "ms"
    histogram {
      value = "Milliseconds(end_time - start_time)"
    }
  }

  spans {
    name        = "http.server.request.count"
    description = "Number of HTTP server requests"
    attributes {
      key = "http.request.method"
    }
    sum {
      value = "1"
    }
  }

  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative "default" {
  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.processor.interval.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.processor.interval "default" {
  interval = "60s"

  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.exporter.otlphttp.default.input]
  }
}

otelcol.exporter.otlphttp "default" {
  client {
    endpoint = "http://localhost:4318"
  }
}
```

### Control the number of data points per minute

`otelcol.connector.signaltometrics` produces metrics whenever it receives a batch of telemetry, using delta temporality.
It has no flush interval of its own, so the rate at which it produces data points is governed by how often upstream components send it data, not by any scrape interval.

> Exporting these metrics directly can produce many data points per minute for each series, which increases cost on backends that price per data point, such as those contracted to one data point per minute, equivalent to a 60-second scrape interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you export these metrics directly, it can produce many data points per minute for each series, which increases cost on backends that price per data point, such as those contracted to one data point per minute, equivalent to a 60-second scrape interval.
```

> To bound the rate, place an [`otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative`][deltatocumulative] and an [`otelcol.processor.interval`][interval] processor between the connector and the exporter, as shown in the previous examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To limit the rate, place an [`otelcol.processor.deltatocumulative`][deltatocumulative] and an [`otelcol.processor.interval`][interval] processor between the connector and the exporter, as shown in the previous examples:
```
